ESPEAKEDIT

This is the initial sourceforge release of the espeakedit program.  It is used to prepare and compile phoneme data for the eSpeak speech synthesier.  See  docs/editor.html

In addition to its own functions, espeakedit is compiled including the source files from the  speak  program.  So it uses the same synthesis routines when it produced sound from phoneme data.

Sometimes I change the format of the compiled phoneme or dictionary data that espeakedit produces and that speak uses.  So it's important to have compatible versions of the two programs.


DEPENDENCIES

espeakedit  has a GUI by using the wxWidgets library (wxGTK version 2.6) (www.wxwidgets.org).

It needs the following packages (these are the names from the Ubuntu "Dapper" repository):

To run:
   libwxgtk2.6-0
   libportaudio0
   sox

To compile, it also needs:
   libwxgtk2.6-dev
   libportaudio-dev

The binary has been compiled to use V18 of the PortAudio library.  If you have V19 you will need to recompile espeakedit, after copying  portaudio19.h  to replace the original  portaudio.h  file in the src directory.


COMPILING

I have now included a Makefile in the src directory, so it should compile, if
the wxWigets include files (from the libwxgtk2.6-dev package) are present, by using:
  make


DOCUMENTATION

Not much yet.  docs/editor.html  is a quick run through of the main functions.  docs/editor-if.html  gives some details of the user interface.

If you want to use it to add or improve phoneme data, and you have questions, please email me.


DATA

Directory "phsource" contains the master phonemes file: "phonemes", the additional phoneme files for various languages, and all the sound files needed to compile the phoneme data into  espeak-dara/phondata, phontab, phonindex.


PRAAT

I use praat (from www.praat.org) to view and analyse speech output, either sound recordings, or output from the eSpeak synthesizer.

I make a modification to Praat to add a function to analyse a sample of speech and produce a file containing sequence of time-slice spectra which you can load into espeakedit to display and use as a basic for matching or creating vowel and other voiced sounds.  Detials of the modification are in the directory  praat-mod.

Unfortunately I am currently unable to compile and run praat on my computer, even an unmodified copy.  It compiles OK, but won't run (gets stuck with 100% CPU usage without displaying any GUI).  I don't know why this is.

I have an old binary (build before I last upgraded by Linux) and that runs OK.
